--Q1
--Find the titles of all movies directed by Steven Spielberg. 

select title
from Movie
where director = 'Steven Spielberg';

--Q2 
--Find all years that have a movie that received a rating of 4 or 5, and sort them in increasing order. 

select year
from Movie
where mID in(
    select mID
    from Rating
    where stars>3)
order by year asc;

--Q3
--Find the titles of all movies that have no ratings. 

select Title
from Movie
where mID not in(
    select mID
    from Rating);

--Q4 
--Some reviewers didn't provide a date with their rating. Find the names of all reviewers who have ratings with a NULL value for the date. 

select name
from Reviewer
where rID in(
    select rID
    from Rating
    where ratingDate is null);
    
--Q5
--Write a query to return the ratings data in a more readable format: reviewer name, movie title, stars, and ratingDate. Also, sort the data, first by reviewer name, then by movie title, and lastly by number of stars. 

select name, title,stars,ratingDate
from (Reviewer join Rating using(rID)) join Movie using(mID)
order by name, title, stars;

--Q6
--For all cases where the same reviewer rated the same movie twice and gave it a higher rating the second time, return the reviewer's name and the title of the movie. 

select name, title 
from Reviewer r, Movie m, Rating r1, Rating r2
where r1.mID=m.mID and r.rID=r1.rID 
  and r1.rID = r2.rID and r2.mID = m.mID
  and r1.stars < r2.stars and r1.ratingDate < r2.ratingDate;
  
--Q7
--For each movie that has at least one rating, find the highest number of stars that movie received. Return the movie title and number of stars. Sort by movie title. 

select title, max(stars)
from Movie join Rating using(mID)
group by title;

--Q8 
--For each movie, return the title and the 'rating spread', that is, the difference between highest and lowest ratings given to that movie. Sort by rating spread from highest to lowest, then by movie title. 

select title,max(mx-mn) rs
from(
    select title, max(stars) as mx, min(stars) as mn
    from Movie join Rating r using(mID)
    group by title)
group by title
order by rs desc;

--Q9
--Find the difference between the average rating of movies released before 1980 and the average rating of movies released after 1980. (Make sure to calculate the average rating for each movie, then the average of those averages for movies before 1980 and movies after. Don't just calculate the overall average rating before and after 1980.) 

select avg(avg1)-avg(avg2)
from(
    select mID, avg(stars) as avg1
    from Rating join Movie using(mID)
    where year<1980
    group by mID),(
        select mID, avg(stars) as avg2
        from Rating join Movie using(mID)
        where year>1980
        group by mID);

